_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: "Hideaki Joko - NLP and IR Researcher"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

NLP and IR researcher based in the Canada

# 📙 Biography

Hideaki Joko is a researcher and PhD candidate at Radboud University, Canada. He earned an MSc from the University of Tokyo for his research in natural language processing (NLP) and a BEng in applied mathematics from Waseda University. He served as a research engineer at Mitsubishi Electric from 2016 to 2020.

Having ~8 years of research experience and ~5 years of hands-on experience in NLP and information retrieval (IR), he has published 10+ papers in conferences and peer-reviewed journals, obtained several patents, and received multiple awards for his research and development in NLP and IR.

# 💪 Skills
- Programming Languages: Python, C#, Java, etc.
- Software Libraries: HuggingFace, PyTorch, Elasticsearch, etc.
- Operating Systems: Linux, Mac OS, Windows
- Languages: English and Japanese


# 💼 Work Experience
**🇳🇱 Radboud University, Nijmegen, Netherlands** - Doctoral Researcher\
September 2020 - PRESENT
- Responsible for researching and developing NLP and IR as an employed doctoral researcher at the university.
- Researched the effectiveness of using entity information on conversational search, and published the results at TREC Conversational Assistance Track (CAsT) 2021.
- Researched and developed conversational entity linking dataset and method, and published them at SIGIR 2021 and CIKM 2022, respectively.
- Led the collaboration project with the University of Glasgow/Edinburgh about LLM-augmented conversational search, resulting in a full paper at SIGIR 2024.

**🇬🇧 Signal AI, London, UK** - Visiting Researcher\
June 2022 - October 2022
- Responsible for industrial research in NLP at one of the UK's fastest-growing startups.
- Researched and developed an efficient and effective target-based sentiment analysis method using Transformers.

**🇯🇵 Mitsubishi Electric, Kanagawa, Japan**  - Research Engineer\
April 2016 - August 2020
- Developed algorithms for search, question answering, and intention understanding, resulting in multiple academic publications, patents, and a research award.
- Developed text-based error diagnosis algorithm and software, reducing costs by ~30%.
- Led a collaborative R&D project, developed C# information retrieval software to streamline design process, earning the R&D Center President's Award.

# ‍🎓 Education

**🇳🇱 Radboud University, Nijmegen, Netherlands** - PhD, Data Science\
September 2020 - August 2024
- Fully-funded PhD program, focusing on conversational search and dialogue system. 

**🇯🇵 University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan** - MSc, Natural Language Processing\
March 2016
- Earned a research master's from the Computing Systems Group, Multidisciplinary Science Department, through research in NLP.
- Achieved a GPA of 3.7/4.0, demonstrating a commitment to academic excellence.
- Thesis on synonym detection using the skip-gram model, later published in the Journal of Natural Language Processing.

**🇯🇵 Waseda University, Tokyo, Japan** - BEng. Applied Mathematics\
March 2014
- Graduated with a Bachelor's degree in math from a Japanese leading institution, excelling in key subjects such as Mathematical Statistics, Differential Equations, and Applied Mathematics.
- Thesis on accent detection using Optimality Theory earned a top grade, further inspiring him to pursue a career in R&D.

# 🏆 Awards
Received six awards and grants including:
- **CIKM National Science Foundation Travel Grant** covering the cost of attending CIKM up to $1000, 2022.
- **SIGIR Student Travel Grant** covering the SIGIR 2021 conference registration fee, 2021.
- **Incentive Research Award** from the JSAI Workshop on Interactive Information Access and Visual Mining for his research on intention understanding utilizing multi-task transfer learning, 2019.
- **Mitsubishi Electric R&D Center President Award** for making a mechanical device design process efficient by developing an IR algorithm and software, 2019.

<!--
  - His research that proposes an intention understanding method utilizing multi-task transfer learning was selected as one of the best two out of more than 20 papers.
-->

# 🙋 Volunteering
- ACM Conversational User Interface (CUI) Conference Volunteer, 2023.
- ACM SIGIR Conference Volunteer, 2022.

# 📄 First Author Publications

**International Conferences**
- Doing Personal LAPS: LLM-Augmented Dialogue Construction for Personalized Multi-Session Conversational Search, H. Joko, et. al., ACM SIGIR, 2024.
- Personal Entity, Concept, and Named Entity Linking in Conversations, H. Joko, et. al., ACM CIKM 2022.
- Radboud University at TREC CAsT 2021, H. Joko, et. al., TREC, 2021.
- Conversational Entity Linking: Problem Definition and Datasets, H. Joko, et. al., ACM SIGIR, 2021.
- Learning Word Embeddings Using Spatial Information, H. Joko, et. al., IEEE International Conference on System, Man, and Cybernetics (SMC), 2019.
- Intention Understanding in Small Training Data Sets by Using Transfer Learning, H. Joko, et. al., The International Conference on Mobile Computing and Ubiquitous Networking, 2018.

**Refereed Journal Papers (In Japanese)**
- Accelerating Contextualized Representation based Document Retrieval Using Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search, H. Joko, et. al., IEICE Transactions on Information and Systems, 2020.
- Automatic Synonym Acquisition Using a Context-Restricted Skip-gram Model, H. Joko, et. al., Journal of Natural Language Processing, 2017.

**Domestic Conferences (In Japanese)**
- Learning Word Embeddings Using Spatial Information, H. Joko, et. al., JSAI Workshop on Interactive Information Access and Visual Mining, 2019.
- Intention Understanding with Small Training Data Sets by Utilizing Multi-Task Transfer Learning, H. Joko, et. al., JSAI Workshop on Interactive Information Access and Visual Mining, 2018. Incentive Research Award (Success rate: 10%).
- Intention Understanding in Small Training Data Sets by Using Transfer Learning, H. Joko, et. al., IEICE General Conference, 2018.
- Automatic Synonym Acquisition Using a Context-Restricted Skip-gram Model, H. Joko, et. al., The Association for Natural Language Processing, 2016.
- Evaluation of Word Vectors by Synonym Identification, H. Joko, et. al., JSAI Workshop on Interactive Information Access and Visual Mining, 2015.

**Presentations**
- Entity Linking in Conversations, H. Joko, Distinguished Speaker Series at Georgia Tech ACM Student Chapter, 2023. (Invited)
- Personal Entity, Concept, and Named Entity Linking in Conversations, H. Joko, MICROS Workshop at CIKM, 2022. (Invited)
- Entity Linking in Conversations, H. Joko, Search-Oriented Conversational AI (SCAI) Workshop at SIGIR, 2022.
- Conversational Entity Linking: Problem Definition and Datasets, H. Joko, The 20th Dutch-Belgian Information Retrieval Workshop (DIR), 2022.

# 💡 Patents
- INFORMATION PROCESSING APPARATUS, NON-TRANSITORY COMPUTER-READABLE STORAGE MEDIUM, AND INFORMATION PROCESSING METHOD, H. Joko, JP7058807B2/US20220179890A1
- LANGUAGE PROCESSING DEVICE, LANGUAGE PROCESSING SYSTEM AND LANGUAGE PROCESSING METHOD, H. Joko, JP6647475B2/US20210192139.
- INFORMATION PROCESSING DEVICE, INFORMATION PROCESSING METHOD, AND STORAGE MEDIUM STORING INFORMATION PROCESSING PROGRAM, H. Joko, et. al., JP6833134B2/US20210224475.

# 🧑‍🏫 Teaching
- **Information Retrieval MSc Thesis Project** at Radboud University, 2022 - Daily Supervisor
- **Information Retrieval Course** at Radboud University, 2021 - Teaching Assistant

# 📚 Professional Development
Other than research, his interest is in solving business challenges using his expertise in NLP and IR. He has 200+ hours of data analysis, marketing, and project management education from several institutes including Wharton Online and Mitsubishi Electric.

**📊 Data Analysis** Course Certificates
- A Crash Course in Causality: Inferring Causal Effects from Observational Data by University of Pennsylvania on Coursera
- Bayesian Statistics: From Concept to Data Analysis by University of California on Coursera

**👔 Marketing** Course Certificates
- Entrepreneurship 1: Developing the Opportunity by Wharton Online
- Financial Markets by Yale University on Coursera
- Introduction to Marketing by Wharton Online

# 💯 Test Score
**Japanese Higher Civil Service Examination** - Engineering Category
- Successfully passed the highly selective Japanese governmental examination and interview for high-level administrative positions, with a pass rate of about 6% in total, demonstrating advanced knowledge of mathematics and engineering. Although honored by the opportunity, he ultimately chose to pursue his career as an industry researcher.

Commit message:

Add work experience as Visiting Scholar at University of Waterloo

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: "Hideaki Joko - NLP and IR Researcher"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

NLP and IR researcher based in the Canada

# 📙 Biography

Hideaki Joko is a researcher and PhD candidate at Radboud University, Canada. He earned an MSc from the University of Tokyo for his research in natural language processing (NLP) and a BEng in applied mathematics from Waseda University. He served as a research engineer at Mitsubishi Electric from 2016 to 2020.

Having ~8 years of research experience and ~5 years of hands-on experience in NLP and information retrieval (IR), he has published 10+ papers in conferences and peer-reviewed journals, obtained several patents, and received multiple awards for his research and development in NLP and IR.

# 💪 Skills
- Programming Languages: Python, C#, Java, etc.
- Software Libraries: HuggingFace, PyTorch, Elasticsearch, etc.
- Operating Systems: Linux, Mac OS, Windows
- Languages: English and Japanese


# 💼 Work Experience
**🇨🇦 University of Waterloo, Canada** - Visiting Scholar\
May 2025 - PRESENT (Hybrid)
- Visiting scholar at the Cheriton School of Computer Science, working with Charles Clarke on the evaluation of large language models (LLMs) in real-world conversational scenarios.

**🇳🇱 Radboud University, Nijmegen, Netherlands** - Doctoral Researcher\
September 2020 - PRESENT
- Responsible for researching and developing NLP and IR as an employed doctoral researcher at the university.
- Researched the effectiveness of using entity information on conversational search, and published the results at TREC Conversational Assistance Track (CAsT) 2021.
- Researched and developed conversational entity linking dataset and method, and published them at SIGIR 2021 and CIKM 2022, respectively.
- Led the collaboration project with the University of Glasgow/Edinburgh about LLM-augmented conversational search, resulting in a full paper at SIGIR 2024.

**🇬🇧 Signal AI, London, UK** - Visiting Researcher\
June 2022 - October 2022
- Responsible for industrial research in NLP at one of the UK's fastest-growing startups.
- Researched and developed an efficient and effective target-based sentiment analysis method using Transformers.

**🇯🇵 Mitsubishi Electric, Kanagawa, Japan**  - Research Engineer\
April 2016 - August 2020
- Developed algorithms for search, question answering, and intention understanding, resulting in multiple academic publications, patents, and a research award.
- Developed text-based error diagnosis algorithm and software, reducing costs by ~30%.
- Led a collaborative R&D project, developed C# information retrieval software to streamline design process, earning the R&D Center President's Award.

# ‍🎓 Education

**🇳🇱 Radboud University, Nijmegen, Netherlands** - PhD, Data Science\
September 2020 - August 2024
- Fully-funded PhD program, focusing on conversational search and dialogue system. 

**🇯🇵 University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan** - MSc, Natural Language Processing\
March 2016
- Earned a research master's from the Computing Systems Group, Multidisciplinary Science Department, through research in NLP.
- Achieved a GPA of 3.7/4.0, demonstrating a commitment to academic excellence.
- Thesis on synonym detection using the skip-gram model, later published in the Journal of Natural Language Processing.

**🇯🇵 Waseda University, Tokyo, Japan** - BEng. Applied Mathematics\
March 2014
- Graduated with a Bachelor's degree in math from a Japanese leading institution, excelling in key subjects such as Mathematical Statistics, Differential Equations, and Applied Mathematics.
- Thesis on accent detection using Optimality Theory earned a top grade, further inspiring him to pursue a career in R&D.

# 🏆 Awards
Received six awards and grants including:
- **CIKM National Science Foundation Travel Grant** covering the cost of attending CIKM up to $1000, 2022.
- **SIGIR Student Travel Grant** covering the SIGIR 2021 conference registration fee, 2021.
- **Incentive Research Award** from the JSAI Workshop on Interactive Information Access and Visual Mining for his research on intention understanding utilizing multi-task transfer learning, 2019.
- **Mitsubishi Electric R&D Center President Award** for making a mechanical device design process efficient by developing an IR algorithm and software, 2019.

<!--
  - His research that proposes an intention understanding method utilizing multi-task transfer learning was selected as one of the best two out of more than 20 papers.
-->

# 🙋 Volunteering
- ACM Conversational User Interface (CUI) Conference Volunteer, 2023.
- ACM SIGIR Conference Volunteer, 2022.

# 📄 First Author Publications

**International Conferences**
- Doing Personal LAPS: LLM-Augmented Dialogue Construction for Personalized Multi-Session Conversational Search, H. Joko, et. al., ACM SIGIR, 2024.
- Personal Entity, Concept, and Named Entity Linking in Conversations, H. Joko, et. al., ACM CIKM 2022.
- Radboud University at TREC CAsT 2021, H. Joko, et. al., TREC, 2021.
- Conversational Entity Linking: Problem Definition and Datasets, H. Joko, et. al., ACM SIGIR, 2021.
- Learning Word Embeddings Using Spatial Information, H. Joko, et. al., IEEE International Conference on System, Man, and Cybernetics (SMC), 2019.
- Intention Understanding in Small Training Data Sets by Using Transfer Learning, H. Joko, et. al., The International Conference on Mobile Computing and Ubiquitous Networking, 2018.

**Refereed Journal Papers (In Japanese)**
- Accelerating Contextualized Representation based Document Retrieval Using Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search, H. Joko, et. al., IEICE Transactions on Information and Systems, 2020.
- Automatic Synonym Acquisition Using a Context-Restricted Skip-gram Model, H. Joko, et. al., Journal of Natural Language Processing, 2017.

**Domestic Conferences (In Japanese)**
- Learning Word Embeddings Using Spatial Information, H. Joko, et. al., JSAI Workshop on Interactive Information Access and Visual Mining, 2019.
- Intention Understanding with Small Training Data Sets by Utilizing Multi-Task Transfer Learning, H. Joko, et. al., JSAI Workshop on Interactive Information Access and Visual Mining, 2018. Incentive Research Award (Success rate: 10%).
- Intention Understanding in Small Training Data Sets by Using Transfer Learning, H. Joko, et. al., IEICE General Conference, 2018.
- Automatic Synonym Acquisition Using a Context-Restricted Skip-gram Model, H. Joko, et. al., The Association for Natural Language Processing, 2016.
- Evaluation of Word Vectors by Synonym Identification, H. Joko, et. al., JSAI Workshop on Interactive Information Access and Visual Mining, 2015.

**Presentations**
- Entity Linking in Conversations, H. Joko, Distinguished Speaker Series at Georgia Tech ACM Student Chapter, 2023. (Invited)
- Personal Entity, Concept, and Named Entity Linking in Conversations, H. Joko, MICROS Workshop at CIKM, 2022. (Invited)
- Entity Linking in Conversations, H. Joko, Search-Oriented Conversational AI (SCAI) Workshop at SIGIR, 2022.
- Conversational Entity Linking: Problem Definition and Datasets, H. Joko, The 20th Dutch-Belgian Information Retrieval Workshop (DIR), 2022.

# 💡 Patents
- INFORMATION PROCESSING APPARATUS, NON-TRANSITORY COMPUTER-READABLE STORAGE MEDIUM, AND INFORMATION PROCESSING METHOD, H. Joko, JP7058807B2/US20220179890A1
- LANGUAGE PROCESSING DEVICE, LANGUAGE PROCESSING SYSTEM AND LANGUAGE PROCESSING METHOD, H. Joko, JP6647475B2/US20210192139.
- INFORMATION PROCESSING DEVICE, INFORMATION PROCESSING METHOD, AND STORAGE MEDIUM STORING INFORMATION PROCESSING PROGRAM, H. Joko, et. al., JP6833134B2/US20210224475.

# 🧑‍🏫 Teaching
- **Information Retrieval MSc Thesis Project** at Radboud University, 2022 - Daily Supervisor
- **Information Retrieval Course** at Radboud University, 2021 - Teaching Assistant

# 📚 Professional Development
Other than research, his interest is in solving business challenges using his expertise in NLP and IR. He has 200+ hours of data analysis, marketing, and project management education from several institutes including Wharton Online and Mitsubishi Electric.

**📊 Data Analysis** Course Certificates
- A Crash Course in Causality: Inferring Causal Effects from Observational Data by University of Pennsylvania on Coursera
- Bayesian Statistics: From Concept to Data Analysis by University of California on Coursera

**👔 Marketing** Course Certificates
- Entrepreneurship 1: Developing the Opportunity by Wharton Online
- Financial Markets by Yale University on Coursera
- Introduction to Marketing by Wharton Online

# 💯 Test Score
**Japanese Higher Civil Service Examination** - Engineering Category
- Successfully passed the highly selective Japanese governmental examination and interview for high-level administrative positions, with a pass rate of about 6% in total, demonstrating advanced knowledge of mathematics and engineering. Although honored by the opportunity, he ultimately chose to pursue his career as an industry researcher.
